[Music]
i
never thought i'd be here i'm the most
emotional person i know
i fall deeply in love with characters in
books
i get sent i hope you enjoy your food
card with my takeaway
and i feel as though i should hold on to
it forever
i used to collect all of my cinema
tickets and
the chocolate wrappers from the candy
that my grandad
would buy me and today i'm a minimalist
who only owns one
plate and this process
has been long a lot of it's out of my
control
but it's been really really difficult
nonetheless i do want to say that it's
had so
many benefits i feel like being a
minimalist has
helped me with decision making with
dealing with
loss with grief with discipline with
control or lack thereof
and with peace and today i wanted to
share some of the main
benefits that being a minimalist has had
for me if you're new here my name is
elizabeth i'm a medical student and an
artist living in london
and last year i counted that i'd lived
in 26 houses
so far and i feel as though this has
been the start
to my minimalism journey the need to
throw things away
cut things out and travel light i've
definitely taken it a lot more steps
further
since then but this is what it has
taught me number one
is cutting things out there are so many
things that i want and think that i need
but a lot of these desires are actually
imposed by me
and let's not just say that there is any
sort of mal intent
behind the things that for example my
family or my friends or
the algorithms on the internet or
advertisements want to sell me
but are they really necessary i feel as
though learning to let go of the things
that i wanted and
needed is so liberating and that's not
to say that this
is easy as stephen king said you must
kill your darlings
kill your darlings even when it breaks
your little egocentric
scribbler's heart kill your darlings and
this is exactly what it feels like i've
often felt as though i'm ripping away
parts of my heart
when i'm throwing away cards that i've
gotten and all these small things that i
used to collect
but it's got to be done i completely
agree
and that this sort of training to let go
is a very important value to have
before i used to have so many different
pens and pencils
i would buy so many different
sketchbooks and paints
and i would actually never really use
them and draw
well today i'm doing a degree in medical
art and i've been using the same
mechanical pencil for the last two years
so i feel as though it is not the things
that i need to get stuff done
and not only that but what would happen
in the past i would invest tens
hundreds or even thousands of pounds
buying expensive equipment for something
i wanted to do
and then never actually doing it at all
and ending up hating the whole situation
because i'd spent so much money now and
i'd feel so guilty at the moment i used
a super old ipad
to illustrate a book i feel as though by
being more mindful about things that i
buy
i know now that i will only get them
when they are necessary
and i never have this feeling of hate
rather i have this feeling of excitement
because i've earned an upgrade in a way
and it definitely really taught me that
i don't need things to do
great work i can produce great work if i
was passionate enough with what i
already have
in most of the cases so things in
general now grow with time
with me and not in one huge investment
before i've even started
the next benefit and pain has been that
of being a minimalist with decision
making
i am a huge people pleaser i find it
very very difficult to say no to things
even things that i
really don't want to do i feel as though
people will think that i
am selfish or mean or inconsiderate if i
don't agree to what i am being asked and
to be fair this is probably the thing
that i want to work on the most in 2021
but i think when it comes to making
decisions i am still
deep down that girl who needed social
validation
in wanting to have clothes like everyone
around her and although i found it a lot
easier to be a minimalist with
my clothes for example i find it a lot
more difficult to be a minimalist with
the choices i
make i love what greg manowan says in
that you need to say
a quick no and a slow yes so even though
i think in the beginning of our careers
um it's quite good to be a yes man and
to say yes to opportunities because
that's how you will advance and this is
definitely how i've gotten to
the position that i am in which is
nothing amazing but it's great
for me um but i do think that i've now
reached that stage of my life wherein i
need to be more comfortable with
setting boundaries for myself being a
bit more
cutthroat with um my own ego in saying
that
i need to kind of trade some of my
popularity
for more respect for myself for the
things that i actually want to do the
next thing is that by being a minimalist
i can get myself
to value the things that i really want
to now
this is because by cutting things out
you are almost starting from a blank
slate
and that's not to say that i am removing
my personality or my social conditioning
because that would be very difficult
but i feel like to some extent being
more mindful about the things that
surround me
and the choices that i make means that i
can start from zero
almost and there's nothing wrong with
wanting things
but i think it's quite important to
consider what are the things that i want
and why are they there for example in
the past i
admit i did like designer items but then
i thought
actually i care a lot more about giving
to charity and supporting causes that i
am passionate about
and this is just a decision i made this
is not to say
that one is better than the other or
that people should think a certain way
but i think it is beneficial to kind of
question those values because you might
also find
that they are not the ones that actually
fit in with
most of the things that you want to do
in your life so for example i've gotten
myself to love empty spaces
and lack of clutter and a single pair of
bed sheets that i wash and put
right back on and a single pair of jeans
that just fits right
because i don't think that i really need
more i love the thought of you can get
yourself to want anything
you might as well be intentional about
what you train yourself
to want my last point is that ownership
is dangerous and of course i needed to
insert a study here
but the less things you own the more
realistic you can be of their value
there was this very interesting study
where two different groups of people
were given mugs to sell
some were told that the mugs were theirs
and some were told that the mugs weren't
theirs and the ones who were told that
the mugs were theirs were refusing to
sell them for anything less than double
the price
of the other group and this belief that
something is ours
distorts our real perception of how
valuable it is
ownership is a very powerful thing and
even the belief that we own something
can make us
massively overvalue it so i feel as
though the less things i have not only
the less i
spend with them but the less things i
also have to lose
and i kind of only hold on to things
that are genuinely
i feel important to me so yes these were
a few things that minimalism has taught
and
is currently teaching me i didn't go
into the practicalities of what being a
minimalist looks like
if this is something that you'd be
interested in please let me know i could
talk about it
for days i hope this was slightly
thought-provoking or interesting at all
to see someone's else perspective on
this matter
and i would love to know have you
dabbled in minimalism before
is this something that you embrace hate
or love i'd actually be very curious in
opening this conversation
but as always if you made it so far
thank you so much for spending this time
with me i hope you have a wonderful rest
of your day
be count yourself and others and don't
believe everything you think thanks
bye
you